---
layout: post
title: Fall Update
---
Just a quick update on my life and the status of this blog. I’ve started
classes for my second year at RPI, and my summer internship at 3M went so well
that they’ve hired me part-time for this fall!

### Classes 
This semester I’m taking Intro to Algorithms, which although more theoretical
than I would like it to be will surely help with my coding. I am also taking
Principles of Software, which is more software-engineering focused, and
reinforces all those fun things like version control, unit testing, and
clean/reusable/scalable code that I learned this summer. On the hardware side,
I’m taking Electric Circuits, which I’ve heard is one of the more
work-intesnive classes at RPI, but nevertheless should be fun. My last course
is Computer Architecture, Networks, and Operating Systems (CANOS), which
should also be interesting. I’m hoping to learn and use some assembly to help
me with some of the lower-level programming.

### My Internship 
This summer at 3M, I helped clean up a legacy application. It was the largest
codebase I’ve worked with so far, written over the course of many years, and
began during the startup phase of the 3M division, which meant some of the
architecture was sacrificed for increased development speed. This gave me the
opportunity to not only understand the codebase, but refactor on a class and
design level, rather than just with individual functions. Ultimately, I removed
a manual dependency, switched much of the data retrieval over to use a REST
Api, and added several new features to the application. This fall, I am now
tasked with rewriting the entire tool from the ground up, with a modern
architecture and a decoupled front-end and back-end. I’ve been researching
backend technologies, and there is a chance we may go serverless, using AWS
Lambda, API Gateway, and the AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM), which I am
super excited about! Once the backend is implemented, I will begin working on
the frontend, most likely in Angular, which I also look forward to learning and
using.

### Other projects
I managed to finish my smart-home automated blinds over the summer, and should
be doing a writeup on those soon. I'm currently in the second iteration of the
skateboard lighting, having learned far more about both software and hardware
since I began the project. As coding projects, I have several ideas to add to
my twitter bot, and I'm working through a web development to learn the MEAN
stack everyone's so excited about. Look for writeups and more projects coming soon!
